---
layout: post
title: Virginia Math Bulletin, March 2014
date: 2014-03-01 13:30:00
event-date: 2014-03-01 12:00:00
comments: false
categories: news virginia-math-bulletin
published: true
image: __SITE_URL__/allnews/virginia-math-bulletin/Bulletin2014_image.png
image-wide: true
image-alt: Virginia Math Bulletin, March 2014
image-address: __SITE_URL__/allnews/virginia-math-bulletin/Bulletin2014.pdf
---

Presenting the [2014 issue of the Virginia Math Bulletin]({{site.url}}/allnews/virginia-math-bulletin/Bulletin2014.pdf).

<!--more-->

<h3 class="mt-5 mb-3">View from the Chair</h3>

Welcome to the first number of the new Virginia Math Bulletin! It is also my first year as Chair of the
Mathematics Department. It has been an exciting year for me, and I still have a lot to learn about the
position. My "learning-on-the-job" experience has been made easy because of the good advice and
help I have received. I want to thank all of the faculty, staff, and students who have helped me this
year, and particularly former Chairs Ira Herbst, John Imbrie, Brian Parshall, and Don Ramirez,
Associate Chair Mikhail Ershov, and Graduate Directors Mike Hill and Tom Mark.

There have been many upbeat moments in the Department,
which you can read about in this first newsletter. Here, I would
like to preview some of the major events in the Department over
the next few years. The single word that best describes what is
happening is "change." Many distinguished faculty have retired
or left to pursue new adventures. We will be hiring a large
number of faculty over the next several years, and the type of
department we become will depend greatly on the abilities and
energy of the faculty we recruit. This year we welcomed two new
tenure-track faculty: Andrew Obus and Ben Webster. We have
recruited three new tenure-track faculty: Yen Do (coming in
2014-15), Thomas Koberda (coming in 2015-16), and Leonid
Petrov (coming in 2014-15). We anticipate many more new
faculty in the years to come.

Our faculty have had many successes over this last year: Mike
Hill and Andrei Rapinchuk were invited to give talks at the International Congress of Mathematics
(held every four years)---they will be going to Seoul this coming August; one of our new faculty, Ben
Webster, received a prestigious Sloan Fellowship; David Sherman won the first campus-wide Cory
Family Teaching award; and Tai Melcher received a national outstanding service award from the
American Women in Mathematics. We hope to build on these success stories in the years to come.

We welcome two new administrators, Zvezdana Kish, who came in 2012-13, and replaced Julia (Fay)
Miller, as well as Teresa Taft, who started in 2014 and replaced Connie Abell. I am grateful for all
their help. Luckily, Julie Riddleberger is still with us. She has served the Department for many years,
and her institutional memory has saved us many times!

In May, there will be an external review of the Department. A committee of four distinguished mathematicians
from other universities will give their advice about our department, which will help us
improve. Next fall, we will also take a serious look at our undergraduate curriculum and how we teach
it. Christian Gromoll will be leading our efforts at reform.

My coming to Virginia was enabled by an extremely generous gift from Mendel Rosenblum and Diane
Greene. Mendel is the son of one of the past Chairs of the Mathematics Department, Marvin
Rosenblum. Above all else, I would like to contribute to growing the UVa mathematics community of
scholars, students, and friends. Whether you are a past major, graduate student, postdoc, or a friend,
we'd love to hear from you.

[Craig Huneke]({{site.url}}/people/clh4xd/)

Marvin Rosenblum Professor of Mathematics
