---
layout: post
title: Virginia Math Bulletin, June 2015
date: 2015-06-01 13:30:00
comments: false
categories: news virginia-math-bulletin
published: true
image: __SITE_URL__/allnews/virginia-math-bulletin/Bulletin2015_image.png
image-wide: true
image-alt: Virginia Math Bulletin, June 2015
image-address: __SITE_URL__/allnews/virginia-math-bulletin/Bulletin2015.pdf
more-text: Start reading
---

Presenting the [2015 issue of the Virginia Math Bulletin]({{site.url}}/allnews/virginia-math-bulletin/Bulletin2015.pdf).

<!--more-->

<h3 class="mt-5 mb-3">View from the Chair</h3>

The Mathematics Department had an
 exciting 2014-15. Our new Institute
 of Mathematical Sciences began with
 series of talks by distinguished mathematicians Alex Lubotzky in the Fall and
 Vaughan Jones in the Spring. We welcomed Yen Do and Leonid Petrov to the
the department this year as new Assistant Professors. We had an
active season of hiring. Jennifer Morse will be joining us beginning
in Fall 2016 as a Full Professor. Thomas Koberda was hired
last year, and joins us in Fall 2015. We were fortunate to hire Paul
Bourdon, who will become our new Director of Lower Division
courses. He brings great experience, super teaching, new ideas and
energy to our program. We also hired two postdocs: Aseel Farhat
will be a new Whyburn Instructor, and Lloyd West joins us as a
Postdoctoral Research Fellow in Fall 2015.

Not only was 2014-15 a time of transitions in the Mathematics
Department, but across Grounds as well. Over last summer,
the College of Arts and Sciences welcomed its new Dean, Ian Baucom.
We are currently searching for a new Provost who will replace
John Simon. John Hawley continues to be our Associate
Dean overseeing science departments, including Mathematics.

 We also had losses. Last summer Tom Kriete retired, and
Mike Hill is leaving to take a professorship at UCLA. We will
miss both of them greatly. Luckily, Tom is finishing a book and is
in the department often. Sadly last Fall we had a devastating and
unexpected loss of our friend and long-time staff administrator,
Julie Riddleberger. Many of us from the department were able to
attend her memorial service. Although her expertise and institutional
memory was unmatched, we are very glad we hired Kimberly
Lamal to replace her. We are also excited to welcome Damar
Watts, who is in Connie Abell's old position.
 The next few years will be a busy time for the department
with many new hires and a restructuring of our undergraduate program.
Christian Gromoll spearheaded a year-long review of our
undergraduate programs, culminating in a long report which details
many improvements we will be implementing over the next
few years.

Kerchof Hall has been undergoing improvements
over the last few years, with office and hallway renovations.
This summer, the entire front entrance is undergoing a
major facelift and improvement. You may not recognize the
building when it is done. This work will close our front entrance
for most of the summer.

 In this newsletter, you will find articles about some
of the research our undergraduates are doing, about the successes
of our faculty, and other news of the department. Tai
Melcher was promoted to Associate Professor since our last
newsletter; Andrei Rapinchuk became the new McConnellBernard
Professor of Mathematics and was elected a Fellow
of the American Mathematical Society; and Andrew
Obus won an All-University Teaching Award. Congratulations
to all of them!

 Mathematics and the sciences in general are threatened
by large cuts of National Science Foundation funding
in both number and size for individual principal investigators.
These cuts affect the department, and we are all the
more grateful for the gifts of people who contribute to our
general gift fund and endowment to allow us to sustain and
improve our many activities. Thank you for your generosity.



[Craig Huneke]({{site.url}}/people/clh4xd/)

Marvin Rosenblum Professor of Mathematics

### [Continue reading in PDF]({{site.url}}/allnews/virginia-math-bulletin/Bulletin2015.pdf)
