---
layout: post
title: Virginia Math Bulletin, June 2016
date: 2016-06-01 13:30:00
comments: false
categories: news virginia-math-bulletin
published: true
image: __SITE_URL__/allnews/virginia-math-bulletin/Bulletin2016_image.png
image-wide: true
image-alt: Virginia Math Bulletin, June 2016
image-address: __SITE_URL__/allnews/virginia-math-bulletin/Bulletin2016.pdf
more-text: Start reading
---

Presenting the third issue of the Department newsletter: [2016 issue of the Virginia Math Bulletin]({{site.url}}/allnews/virginia-math-bulletin/Bulletin2016.pdf).

<!--more-->

<h3 class="mt-5 mb-3">View from the Chair</h3>

The articles in this newsletter
reflect the tremendous activity
we had in the department
during the academic year. It
was an amazing year for us.
The year began by welcoming
to the department three new
faculty: Thomas Koberda,
Paul Bourdon, and Aseel Farhat. In the winter
and spring we had an extremely active hiring
season. As a result, five new faculty will be
joining the department in 2016-17. Jennifer
Morse comes as a Full Professor in
Combinatorics, Julia Bergner as an Associate
Professor in Algebraic Topology, and Juraj
Foldes (PDEs), Francesco Di Plinio (Harmonic
Analysis), and Sara Maloni (Low-Dimensional
Geometry) join us as Assistant Professors. We
welcome new post doctoral fellows: Axel SaenzRodriguez
in Probability, and Ramanujan
Santharoubane in Topology. We also welcome new
staff member Allison Boese.

This year marked the start of anticipated changes
in our undergraduate program as well. Our
Distinguished Majors Program was reorganized and
revitalized into a more robust experience. Under the
direction of Paul Bourdon, our new Director of
Lower Divisional courses, next year we will be
beginning our movement toward smaller and more
interactive Calculus classes. Two of our graduate
students, Peter Bonventre and Katelynn Kochalski,
will be helping to change the way we teach our
Math 1310 courses next Spring. Our major
program continues to be robust and challenging.
This year we had what may be a record of nine of
our majors being elected to Phi Beta Kappa.

Work on Kerchof Hall continues. Last summer
the front of Kerchof was completely redone,
while this summer we have many offices being
renovated.
Our faculty sustains its excellence. Leonid Petrov
won the Moscow Math Prize, while Ben Webster
has been promoted to Associate Professor, won
the Cory Family Teaching Award, and was a Kavli
Fellow – the only pure mathematician invited to
attend the Kavli Symposium at the National
Academy of Sciences. Karen Parshall was elected
to the important Nominating Committee of the
American Mathematical Society and next year
puts another hat on, becoming Chair of the History
Department.

Please enjoy reading about these successes and
changes, as well as other articles on ”Citizen
Science”, on John Berman’s experiences helping
train the U.S. Olympiad team last summer, about
the activities of our Math Club, about our
distinguished lecture series in the Institute of
Mathematics, and about the activities of our
alumni.

[Craig Huneke]({{site.url}}/people/clh4xd/)

Marvin Rosenblum Professor of Mathematics

### [Continue reading in PDF]({{site.url}}/allnews/virginia-math-bulletin/Bulletin2016.pdf)
