---
layout: post
title: Job Opportunities 2017
date: 2017-10-18 13:30:00
comments: false
categories: jobs news
published: true
image: __SITE_URL__/img/news_events/Rotunda_Fall_SS_01.jpg.png
image-alt: UVA Rotunda in the Fall
more-text: Description of positions
---

The Department of Mathematics at the University of Virginia invites applications for several
positions:

- Assistant/Associate Professor, General Faculty
- Postdoctoral Research Associate and Fellow

<!--more-->

---

## Assistant/Associate Professor, General Faculty

###### [This ad on MathJobs](https://www.mathjobs.org/jobs?joblist-164-11087)

The University of Virginia's Department of Mathematics invites applications for a general faculty position to be filled by a mathematics educator who is invested in and passionate about incorporating active-learning strategies in calculus instruction. In addition to teaching for the Mathematics Department, the successful applicant will contribute to the transformation of calculus instruction at UVA through work in course design and coordination, as well as through instructor training and mentoring. The position is at the rank of assistant professor, or, possibly, associate professor for an outstanding candidate having at least six years, post PhD, of mathematics-teaching experience. The initial appointment will be for a three-year term, with an anticipated start date of July 25, 2018. The position is not tenure track. Policies governing initial appointments of academic general faculty members as well as renewal appointments are described at [http://as.virginia.edu/procedures-renewal-and-promotion-AGFM#section-2](http://as.virginia.edu/procedures-renewal-and-promotion-AGFM#section-2).
Applicants must hold a PhD in Mathematics or a related field and have a record of successful mathematics teaching, employing active-learning strategies. A minimum of two years teaching experience is required.

To apply, candidates must submit a Candidate Profile through Jobs@UVa ([https://jobs.virginia.edu](https://jobs.virginia.edu)); search on posting number 0621886 and electronically attach the following: a cover letter of interest describing teaching experience, a curriculum vitae, and contact information for at least three references.

In addition, candidates must submit the following required documents electronically through www.MathJobs.org: a cover letter, an AMS Standard Cover Sheet, a curriculum vitae, and a statement about teaching interests and experience. The applicant must also have at least three letters of recommendation submitted.

To ensure priority consideration, all application materials including recommendation letters must be received by **November 15, 2017**. However, the positions will remain open until filled.

Questions regarding the application process in Jobs@UVa should be directed to: {%include person_info.html UVA_id="zk4g"%}

For additional information about the position contact: math-employment@virginia.edu

The University will perform background checks on all new hires prior to making a final offer of employment.

The University of Virginia is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer.

---

## Postdoctoral Research Associate and Fellow

###### [This ad on MathJobs](https://www.mathjobs.org/jobs?joblist-164-11090)

The Department of Mathematics at the University of Virginia invites applications for several postdoctoral positions, to begin the fall semester of 2018, including the following:
1. Whyburn Research Associate. Priority for this position will be given to applicants in Analysis; however, all candidates whose research interests complement the strengths of the department's current faculty will be considered.

2. Postdoctoral Research Associate and Fellow. High priority for this position will be given to applicants in Algebraic Geometry and Number Theory.

All positions carry an initial appointment of one year, renewable for up to two additional one-year appointments, contingent on performance. Preference for all positions will be given to candidates who have received their Ph.D. within the last three years. Applicants must be on track to receive a Ph.D. in the relevant field by June 2018 and must hold a Ph.D. at the time of appointment. Applicants must present evidence of outstanding accomplishments and promise in both research and teaching. Information about the department may be found at www.math.virginia.edu.

To apply candidates must submit a Candidate Profile through Jobs@UVa ([https://jobs.virginia.edu](https://jobs.virginia.edu)), search on posting number 0621784 and electronically attach the following: a cover letter of interest describing research agenda and teaching experience, a curriculum vitae, and contact information for four references.

In addition, candidates must submit the following required documents electronically through www.MathJobs.org: A cover letter, an AMS Standard Cover Sheet, a curriculum vitae, a publication list, a description of research, and a statement about teaching interests and experience. The applicant must also have at least four letters of recommendation submitted, of which one must support the applicant's effectiveness as a teacher.

To ensure priority consideration, all application materials including recommendation letters must be received by **November 15, 2017**; however, the positions will remain open until filled.

Questions regarding the application process in Jobs@UVa should be directed to: {%include person_info.html UVA_id="zk4g"%}

For additional information about the position contact: math-employment@virginia.edu

The University will perform background checks on all new hires prior to making a final offer of employment.

The University of Virginia is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. Women, minorities, veterans, and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.

---

<br>

*A Group 1 research department, the Department of Mathematics at the University of Virginia actively engages in research in a wide range of fields within algebra, analysis, topology, geometry, and the history of mathematics. The Institute of Mathematical Science further enhances the Department's research agenda through its sponsorship of numerous visiting scholars and speakers. Located on the University's Central Grounds, the Department and the Institute form part of what Thomas Jefferson called the "academical village," an interacting group of scholars in the humanities, the social sciences and the sciences.*
