---
layout: post
title: Job Opportunities 2016
date: 2016-10-26 13:30:00
comments: false
categories: jobs
published: true
more-text: Description of positions
---

The Department of Mathematics at the University of Virginia invites applications for several
positions.

<!--more-->

---

## Postdoctoral Fellow and Lecturer in Mathematics
<p>UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA</p>
<p>Department of Mathematics</p>
<p> </p>
<p>The Department of Mathematics at the University of Virginia invites applications for several postdoctoral positions, including Whyburn Instructorships, to begin the fall semester of 2017. These positions carry a three-year appointment. Preference will be given to candidates who have received their Ph.D. within the last three years. Applicants must be on track to receive a Ph.D. in the relevant field by May 2017 and must hold a Ph.D. at the time of appointment. Applicants must present evidence of outstanding accomplishments and promise in both research and teaching. All candidates whose research interests complement the strengths of the department's current faculty will be considered. Information about the department may be found at <a href="http://www.math.virginia.edu">www.math.virginia.edu</a>.</p>
<p>Review of applications will begin on November 15, 2016; however, the positions will remain open until filled.</p>
<p>To apply candidates must submit a Candidate Profile through Jobs@UVa (<a href="https://jobs.virginia.edu/">https://jobs.virginia.edu</a>), search on posting number 0619358 and electronically attach the following: a cover letter of interest describing research agenda and teaching experience, a curriculum vitae, and contact information for four references.</p>
<p>In addition, please submit the following required documents electronically through <a href="http://www.MathJobs.org">www.MathJobs.org:</a> A cover letter, an AMS Standard Cover Sheet, a curriculum vitae, a publication list, a description of research, and a statement about teaching interests and experience. The applicant must also have at least four letters of recommendation submitted, of which one must support the applicant's effectiveness as a teacher.</p>
<p>Questions regarding the application process in Jobs@UVa should be directed to: Zvezdana Kish, <a href="mailto:zk4g@virginia.edu">zk4g@virginia.edu</a> (434)924-9437</p>
<p>For additional information about the position contact: <a href="mailto:math-employment@virginia.edu">math-employment@virginia.edu</a></p>
<p>The University will perform background checks on all new faculty hires prior to making a final offer of employment.</p>
<p>The University of Virginia is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. Women, minorities, veterans, and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.</p>

---


## Assistant Professor  in Mathematics
<p>UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA</p>
<p>Department of Mathematics</p>
<p> </p>
<p>The Department of Mathematics at the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, invites applications for a tenure-track Assistant Professor full time position. Applicants must present evidence of outstanding accomplishments and promise in both research and teaching. We seek candidates dedicated to our mission and passionate about teaching in a world class institution.</p>
<p>In addition to developing external funding to support research endeavors, candidates will be expected to teach at the graduate and undergraduate levels and provide service to the University, Department and professional organizations. The appointment is anticipated to begin with the fall term of 2017, with an anticipated start date of July 25, 2017. Applicants must be on track to receive a Ph.D. in the relevant field by May 2017 and must hold a PhD at the time of appointment. Preference will be given to applicants whose research program is in Algebraic Geometry or Analysis, but all candidates whose research interests complement the strengths of the department's current faculty will be considered.</p>
<p>To apply candidates must submit a Candidate Profile through Jobs@UVa (<a href="https://jobs.virginia.edu/">https://jobs.virginia.edu</a>), search on posting number 0619419 and electronically attach the following: a cover letter of interest describing research agenda and teaching experience, a curriculum vitae, and contact information for four references.</p>
<p>Review of applications will begin November 1, 2016; however, the positions will remain open until filled.</p>
<p>In addition, please submit the following required documents electronically through <a href="http://www.MathJobs.org">www.MathJobs.org:</a> A cover letter, an AMS Standard Cover Sheet, a curriculum vitae, a publication list, a description of research, and a statement about teaching interests and experience. The applicant must also have at least four letters of recommendation submitted, of which one must support the applicant's effectiveness as a teacher.</p>
<p>Questions regarding the application process in JOBS@UVa should be directed to: Zvezdana Kish, <a href="mailto:zk4g@virginia.edu">zk4g@virginia.edu</a> (434)924-9437.</p>
<p>For additional information about the position contact: <a href="mailto:Math-employment@Virginia.EDU">Math-employment@Virginia.EDU</a></p>
<p>The University will perform background checks on all new faculty hires prior to making a final offer of employment.</p>
<p>The University of Virginia is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer. Women, minorities, veterans, and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.</p>

---

## Lecturer/Instructor
<p>UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA</p>
<p>Department of Mathematics</p>
<p> </p>
<p>The University of Virginia Department of Mathematics seeks applications to fill non-tenure track Lecturer and Instructor positions for the Fall 2016 and/or Spring 2017 semester. Subject areas of particular need include: Calculus and other undergraduate Mathematics courses. Compensation will take the form of wages. A terminal degree is expected but not required. Candidates must have a strong commitment to teaching. Applications will be considered immediately.</p>
<p>To apply, please complete a Candidate Profile online through Jobs@UVa (<a href="https://jobs.virginia.edu">https://jobs.virginia.edu</a>), and search Posting #0618834 and electronically attach the following: a current CV, cover letter, and complete contact information for three professional references.</p>
<p>Questions regarding this position should be directed to:<br /><a href="mailto:math-employment@Virginia.EDU">math-employment@Virginia.EDU</a></p>
<p>Questions regarding the online application process should be directed to:<br /><a href="mailto:zk4g@virginia.edu">zk4g@virginia.edu</a></p>
<p>The University will perform background checks on all new hires prior to making a final offer of employment.</p>
<p>The University of Virginia is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer. Women, minorities, veterans and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply.  </p>
 <a href="https://jobs.virginia.edu">https://jobs.virginia.edu</a>  
