---
layout: post
title: Job Opportunities 2020
comments: false
categories: jobs news major-news
published: true
image: __SITE_URL__/img/news_events/Rotunda_Fall_SS_08.jpg.png
image-alt: UVA Rotunda in the Fall
more-text: Description
---

The Department of Mathematics at the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, invites applications for one position of Whyburn Research Associate and Lecturer. The appointment begins with the fall term of 2021, with an anticipated start date of August 25, 2021. Please apply at [this link](https://uva.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/UVAJobs/job/Charlottesville-VA/Whyburn-Research-Associate-and-Lecturer-in-Mathematics_R0019317-1). Review of applications will begin November 15, 2020.

<!--more-->

---

The Department of Mathematics at the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, invites applications for one position of Whyburn Research Associate and Lecturer. The successful candidates will be expected to conduct their own research, under supervision of a faculty mentor, and teach three courses per year. The appointment begins with the fall term of 2021, with an anticipated start date of August 25, 2021.
Qualification Requirements: Applicants must be on track to receive a Ph.D. in Mathematics or a closely related field by May 2021 and must hold a Ph.D. at the time of appointment. Applicants must present evidence of outstanding accomplishments and promise in both research and teaching. All candidates whose research interests complement the strengths of the department's current faculty will be considered. Priority will be given to applicants in Mathematical Physics, Group Theory, Probability Theory and Representation Theory. In addition, preference will be given to candidates who have received their Ph.D. within the last three years.

Application Process: Please apply [here](https://uva.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/UVAJobs/job/Charlottesville-VA/Whyburn-Research-Associate-and-Lecturer-in-Mathematics_R0019317-1) Complete an application online by attaching a cover letter which addresses
(1) Areas of research interest;
(2) Aims of future research;
(3) Potential Collaborations/Projects at UVa;
(4) Teaching experience.
Also attach a curriculum vitae, and contact information for four references. 
Please note that multiple documents can be uploaded in the CV box.

In addition, please submit the following required documents electronically through www.MathJobs.org: Cover letter, AMS Standard Cover Sheet, curriculum vitae, a publication list, a description of research, and a statement about teaching interests and experience. The applicant must also have at least four letters of recommendation submitted, of which one must support the applicant's effectiveness as a teacher.

Application Deadline: Review of applications will begin November 15, 2020; however, the position will remain open until filled. The University will perform background checks on all new hires prior to employment. This position will also require an Education Verification (FSAKA).

All positions carry an initial appointment of one year, renewable for two additional years, contingent on performance and satisfactory performance.

For questions regarding the application process, please contact Rich Haverstrom, Faculty Search Advisor, at rkh6j@virginia.edu

For additional information about the position contact: math-employment@virginia.edu

A competitive salary and benefits package is offered at University of Virginia. For more information on the benefits available to postdoctoral associates at UVA, visit postdoc.virginia.edu and hr.virginia.edu/benefits.

UVA assists faculty spouses and partners seeking employment in the Charlottesville area. To learn more please visit [https://dualcareer.virginia.edu/](https://dualcareer.virginia.edu/) For more information about UVA and the Charlottesville community please see [http://www.virginia.edu/life/charlottesville](http://www.virginia.edu/life/charlottesville) and [https://embarkcva.com/](https://embarkcva.com/).

The University of Virginia, including the UVA Health System which represents the UVA Medical Center, Schools of Medicine and Nursing, UVA Physician’s Group and the Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, are fundamentally committed to the diversity of our faculty and staff. We believe diversity is excellence expressing itself through every person's perspectives and lived experiences. We are equal opportunity and affirmative action employers. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to age, color, disability, gender identity or expression, marital status, national or ethnic origin, political affiliation, race, religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, veteran status, and family medical or genetic information.

---

<br>

*A Group 1 research department, the Department of Mathematics at the University of Virginia actively engages in research in a wide range of fields within algebra, analysis, topology, geometry, and the history of mathematics. The Institute of Mathematical Science further enhances the Department's research agenda through its sponsorship of numerous visiting scholars and speakers. Located on the University's Central Grounds, the Department and the Institute form part of what Thomas Jefferson called the "academical village," an interacting group of scholars in the humanities, the social sciences and the sciences.*
