---
layout: post
title: Job Opportunities
comments: false
categories: jobs news
published: true
good-md: true
job-year: 2021
image: __SITE_URL__/img/news_events/Rotunda_Fall_SS_08.jpg.png
image-alt: UVA Rotunda in the Fall
more-text: Descriptions
---

- The Department of Mathematics at the University of Virginia invites applications for a three-year Lecturer position on the academic general faculty, expected to begin August 25, 2022. The core responsibilities of this position include teaching six courses per year, three each during the spring and fall terms.

<!--more-->

---

This is a three-year, tenure-ineligible appointment with the possibility of renewal, contingent upon available funding, satisfactory performance, and need for the position.

A Group 1 research department, the Department of Mathematics at the University of Virginia actively engages in research in a wide range of fields within algebra, analysis, topology, geometry, and the history of mathematics. The Institute of Mathematical Science further enhances the Department's research agenda through its sponsorship of numerous visiting scholars and speakers. Located on the University's Central Grounds, the Department and the Institute form part of what Thomas Jefferson called the "academical village," an interacting group of scholars in the humanities, the social sciences and the sciences. The University of Virginia is committed to teaching excellence and offers numerous opportunities for professional development. The University is an extremely vibrant and active intellectual community, located in Charlottesville, with easy access to the Blue Ridge Mountains, the state capital of Richmond, and Washington, D.C.

QUALIFICATION REQUIRMENTS: Applicants must hold a Ph.D. in Mathematics by the start of the appointment and have at least 2 years of teaching experience in Mathematics at the time of appointment, inclusive of teaching done as a graduate student. Preference will be given to applicants with demonstrated experience teaching calculus and linear algebra at the college level.

APPLICATION PROCEDURE: Apply online at [https://uva.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/UVAJobs/job/Charlottesville-VA/Lecturer-of-Mathematics--General-Faculty_R0031599](https://uva.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/UVAJobs/job/Charlottesville-VA/Lecturer-of-Mathematics--General-Faculty_R0031599) as well as www.Mathjobs.org. Please provide all the following information on both sites: 1) A cover letter describing your background in the teaching of mathematics. 2) An AMS Standard Cover Sheet. 3) A curriculum vitae with the contact information for three references. 4) A statement about teaching philosophy, and your past experience working on issues of diversity, equity, and inclusion and/or with diverse populations.

The applicant must also have three letters of recommendation submitted via the www.Mathjobs.org portal.

APPLICATION DEADLINE: Review of applications will begin on February 18, 2022; However, the position will remain open until filled.

The University will perform background checks on all new hires prior to making a final offer of employment. For information on the benefits available to members of the general faculty at UVA, visit hr.virginia.edu/benefits.

For additional information about the position contact, please contact math-employment@virginia.edu.

For questions about the application process, please contact Rich Haverstrom, Faculty Search Advisor, at rkh6j@virginia.edu .

UVA assists faculty spouses and partners seeking employment in the Charlottesville area. To learn more please visit https://dualcareer.virginia.edu/. For more information about UVA and the Charlottesville community please see http://www.virginia.edu/life/charlottesville and https://embarkcva.com/.

COVID Vaccination Requirement: Please visit this page prior to applying for current information regarding vaccination requirements for employment at UVA.


The University of Virginia, including the UVA Health System which represents the UVA Medical Center, Schools of Medicine and Nursing, UVA Physician’s Group and the Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, are fundamentally committed to the diversity of our faculty and staff. We believe diversity is excellence expressing itself through every person's perspectives and lived experiences. We are equal opportunity and affirmative action employers. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to age, color, disability, gender identity or expression, marital status, national or ethnic origin, political affiliation, race, religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, veteran status, and family medical or genetic information.