---
layout: post
title: Tenure Track Job Opportunities
comments: false
categories: jobs news major-news
published: true
good-md: true
job-year: 2022
image: __SITE_URL__/img/news_events/Winter_Lawn.png
image-alt: UVA Rotunda in the Winter
more-text: Description
---

The Department of Mathematics at the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, invites applications for a <b>tenure-track full-time position</b>, with a focus on the area of Algebraic Topology.

<!--more-->

---

- #### [Link to Mathjobs Ad](https://www.mathjobs.org/jobs/UVa/APM2023)

The Department of Mathematics at the University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, invites applications for a tenure-track full-time position, with a focus on the area of Algebraic Topology. Applicants must present evidence of outstanding accomplishments and promise in both research and teaching. We seek candidates dedicated to the department’s mission by providing UVa students with high-quality education in mathematics, and by engaging in widely recognized research in the mathematical sciences. The appointment begins with the fall term of 2023, with an anticipated start date of August 22, 2023.

We actively encourage applications of racial and ethnic minorities, women, individuals with disabilities, individuals who identify with LGBTQ+ communities, individuals from lower-income backgrounds, and/or first-generation college graduates.

In addition to developing external funding to support research endeavors, candidates will be expected to teach at the graduate and undergraduate levels and provide service to the university, department, and professional organizations. Applicants must be on track to receive a Ph.D. in the relevant field by May 2023 and must hold a Ph.D. at the time of appointment.

Application Process:

Please apply online at [https://uva.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/UVAJobs/details/Assistant-Professor-of-Mathematics_R0041217?q=R0041217](https://uva.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/UVAJobs/details/Assistant-Professor-of-Mathematics_R0041217?q=R0041217) and complete an application by attaching a cover letter which addresses<br>
(1) Areas of research interest;<br>
(2) Aims of future research;<br>
(3) Potential Collaborations/Projects at UVa;<br>
(4) Past experience working on issues of diversity, equity and inclusion and/or working with diverse populations;<br>
(5) Teaching experience.<br>
Also attach a curriculum vitae and contact information for four references.

In addition, please submit the following required documents electronically through www.MathJobs.org: Cover letter, AMS Standard Cover Sheet, curriculum vitae, a publication list, a description of research, and a statement about teaching interests and experience. The applicant must also have at least four letters of recommendation submitted, of which one must support the applicant's effectiveness as a teacher. Please note that multiple documents can be uploaded in the CV box.

Review of applications will begin November 18, 2022; however, the position will remain open until filled. The University will perform background checks on all new hires prior to employment. This position will also require an Education Verification (FSAKA).

For questions regarding the application process, please contact Rich Haverstrom, Faculty Search Advisor, at rkh6j@virginia.edu

For additional information about the position contact: math-employment@virginia.edu

A competitive salary and benefits package is offered at University of Virginia. For information on the benefits available to members of the academic faculty at UVA, visit [https://hr.virginia.edu/benefits](https://hr.virginia.edu/benefits).




COVID Vaccination Requirement and Guidelines

Please visit the [UVA COVID-19 Job Requirements and Guidelines webpage](https://hr.virginia.edu/covid-19/covid-requirements-and-guidelines-uva-new-hires) prior to applying for current information regarding vaccination requirements and guidelines for employment at UVA.

The University of Virginia, including the UVA Health System which represents the UVA Medical Center, Schools of Medicine and Nursing, UVA Physician’s Group and the Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, are fundamentally committed to the diversity of our faculty and staff. We believe diversity is excellence expressing itself through every person's perspectives and lived experiences. We are equal opportunity and affirmative action employers. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to age, color, disability, gender identity or expression, marital status, national or ethnic origin, political affiliation, race, religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, veteran status, and family medical or genetic information.