---
layout: post
title: Assistant Professor, General Faculty Job Opportunity
comments: false
categories: jobs news
published: true
job-year: 2022
image: __SITE_URL__/img/news_events/Fall_Lawn.png
image-alt: UVA Rotunda in the Fall
more-text: Description
---

The Department of Mathematics at the University of Virginia invites applications for the position of <b>Assistant Professor, General Faculty</b>, expected to begin August 22, 2023. The position is non-tenure track, one-year appointment.

<!--more-->

---

- #### [Link to Mathjobs Ad](https://www.mathjobs.org/jobs/UVa/AGF2023)

The core responsibilities of this position include teaching up to six courses per year, three each during the spring and fall terms. Additional duties may involve assisting in coordinating the department's Calculus course offerings and serving as a mentor for Mathematics GTAs. We seek someone invested in and passionate about teaching. We particularly welcome applicants with experience in modern pedagogy emphasizing active learning that helps all students from a variety of backgrounds learn.

The Department of Mathematics' General Faculty team is a dynamic group that works together to implement evidence-based, inclusive teaching practices in order to improve student outcomes in coordinated introductory mathematics courses. Opportunities to participate in working groups involving Graduate TA professional development and/or closing opportunity and outcome gaps are available.

### Qualification Requirements:

Applicants must hold a Ph.D. in Mathematics, or a Ph.D. in Mathematics Education by the start of the appointment and have at least 2 years of teaching experience in Mathematics at the time of appointment, inclusive of teaching done as a graduate student.

### Application Procedure:

Apply online at [https://uva.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/UVAJobs/job/Charlottesville-VA/Assistant-Professor-of-Mathematics--AGF_R0047014](https://uva.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/UVAJobs/job/Charlottesville-VA/Assistant-Professor-of-Mathematics--AGF_R0047014) as well as [www.Mathjobs.org](http://www.mathjobs.org/). Please provide all the following information on both sites:

1. A cover letter describing your background in the teaching of mathematics.
2. An AMS Standard Cover Sheet.
3. A curriculum vitae with the contact information for three references.
4. A statement about teaching philosophy, and your past experience working on issues of diversity, equity, and inclusion and/or with diverse populations.

The applicant must also have three letters of recommendation submitted via the [www.Mathjobs.org](http://www.mathjobs.org/) portal.

We actively encourage applications of racial and ethnic minorities, women, individuals with disabilities, individuals who identify with LGBTQ+ communities, individuals from lower-income backgrounds, and/or first-generation college graduates.

Questions about this position should be directed to Professor James Rolf at [jsr2pz@virginia.edu](mailto:jsr2pz@virginia.edu)

Questions about the application process should be directed to Richard Haverstrom, Faculty Search Advisor at [rkh6j@virginia.edu](mailto:rkh6j@virginia.edu).


Review of applications will begin on May 11, 2023; However, the position will remain open until filled.

The University will perform background checks on all new faculty hires prior to making a final offer of employment.

Please visit the [UVA COVID-19 Job Requirements and Guidelines webpage](https://hr.virginia.edu/covid-19/covid-requirements-and-guidelines-uva-new-hires) prior to applying for current information regarding vaccination requirements and guidelines for employment at UVA.

The University of Virginia, including the UVA Health System which represents the UVA Medical Center, Schools of Medicine and Nursing, UVA Physician’s Group and the Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, are fundamentally committed to the diversity of our faculty and staff. We believe diversity is excellence expressing itself through every person's perspectives and lived experiences. We are equal opportunity and affirmative action employers. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to age, color, disability, gender identity or expression, marital status, national or ethnic origin, political affiliation, race, religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, veteran status, and family medical or genetic information.